This project delved into exploring where sidewalk cafe and liquor licenses are issued and the geospatial relationship between these variables and income. Intuitively, areas generally associated as up and coming neighborhoods such as WIlliamsburg were found to see increases in the past two years. However, in Queens, there was found to be a negative correlation between income and sidewalk cafe and liquor licenses.

All of these conclusions should be taken with a grain of salt. First, we can’t be sure that the data for either sidewalk cafes or liquor licenses is complete. There might be places who operate without a license or places that aren’t recorded properly in the dataset. One such example was found in the liquor license data. Additionally, only two liquor licenses were granted to non rail-cars in Grand Central. This seems to be underestimating the true value. There were also two missing zip codes in the data and 15 zip codes that were not found in the liquor license data, giving further evidence that this dataset was incomplete.

The income data was collected by the census. While this data should be high quality, the most recent census was conducted in 2010 which means data might not be recent, especially considering the analysis focused on the years 2015-2016.  Also, we used when the license was issued as a proxy for which neighborhoods were growing. In the sidewalk cafe data, renewed licenses overwrote the existing license for the place. In the liquor license data, it was seen that licenses had to renewed every two years for bars. Without access to all the historical data it is hard to separate growth from the renewal of licenses. 

In terms of correlation, some neighborhoods such as MIdtown were found to have a high number of liquor licenses and sidewalk cafes. These correlations might be spurious as more people tend to live in these areas. This analysis only focused on how income affected sidewalk cafes and bars popping up, but the real cause might be something we didn’t account for such as demographic information, ease of transportation, etc.

For an introductory study, we were able to identify several trends in how licenses are issued, how wealth is distributed geographically across New York City, and correlations between these two variables. Without doing any modelling, we were able to generate and assess the validity of several hypotheses, and some of our preconceived notions were proven wrong. Hopefully, this study was able to show promise in how visualizing and mapping licenses can help provide insight about the what drives certain institutions to grow. 